Post Author: Matthew Phillips
Title: From Tool to Partner: The Evolution of Human-Computer Interaction
Publisher: Morgan and Claypool
Year Published: 2017
Author: Jonathan Grudin
Author’s Affiliation: Penn State University
Abstract: This is the first comprehensive history of human-computer interaction (HCI). Whether you are a user-experience professional or an academic researcher, whether you identify with computer science, human factors, information systems, information science, design, or communication, you can discover how your experiences fit into the expanding field of HCI. You can determine where to look for relevant information in other fields—and where you won’t find it.
This book describes the different fields that have participated in improving our digital tools. It is organized chronologically, describing major developments across fields in each period. Computer use has changed radically, but many underlying forces are constant. Technology has changed rapidly, human nature very little. An irresistible force meets an immovable object. The exponential rate of technological change gives us little time to react before technology moves on. Patterns and trajectories described in this book provide your best chance to anticipate what could come next. We have reached a turning point. Tools that we built for ourselves to use are increasingly influencing how we use them, in ways that are planned and sometimes unplanned. The book ends with issues worthy of consideration as we explore the new world that we and our digital partners are shaping
Strengths: This book goes into great detail recalling the history of Human-Computer interaction by outlining where it started, where it’s been, and where it’s going. A few key areas highlighted in the text that I enjoyed seeing explored was the point at which CHI and Human Factors diverged. The science revolving around Human Performance being the end-all be-all is always an amusing miscalculation. 
While PARC started some of the first research focused on users, it was interesting that Apple was the one to really take this information and begin to “generalize” it in a way and create a degree of design uniformity that would essentially become Design Systems. The rise of researchers like Norman throughout the 80s are some of the best parts to explore in the history and the detail is appreciated here.
The overall history explored in order also creates an interesting concept of military technology evolving to office efficiency and ultimately toward marketing and mass consumption. 
Weaknesses: The fact that the history provided here is so in-depth I believe could also act as a bit of a weakness as well. Is it really all that important to note when Steve Jobs was fired from and returned to Apple?
Another part I felt was a bit of a weakness was the concept picked up right from the beginning regarding human-computer symbiosis and the three stages in the relationship between humans and computers proposed by Licklider. This essentially necessitated the inclusion of AI research throughout, though it only really had any bearing on the chapters related to the recent present and speculation for the future. 
Use in our work: This book gives us an excellent reference to use in a lot of our work moving forward. Being a very comprehensive history, it should serve to address many of the historical occurrences, modes of thought, or practices that have been used in the past.
